.TH "LINKDOWN" "1" "February 2016" "linkdown 1.1.1" "User Commands"
.SH "NAME"
linkdown
.SH "USAGE"

.SP
linkdown <command> [\-jh] [\-\-color|\-\-no\-color] [\-\-bail] [\-j|\-\-json]
.br
         [\-h|\-\-help] [\-\-version] [\-c|\-\-conf=<file...>]
.br
         [\-\-log\-level=<level>] [\-\-depth=<int>] [\-\-report=<file>]
.br
         [\-o|\-\-output=<file>] [\-\-pid=<file>]
.br
         [\-p|\-\-pattern=<regex...>] [\-f|\-\-pattern\-file=<file...>]
.br
         <args>
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.PP
Link manipulation tool.
.SH "COMMANDS"
.BL
.IP "\[ci]" 4
\fBinfo, i\fR: Print response information.
.IP "\[ci]" 4
\fBlist, ls\fR: Print discovered links.
.IP "\[ci]" 4
\fBvalidate, v\fR: Validate (X)HTML pages (nu validator).
.IP "\[ci]" 4
\fBexec, x\fR: Run an executable for each response.
.IP "\[ci]" 4
\fBmeta, m\fR: Extract meta data from HTML pages.
.IP "\[ci]" 4
\fBtree, t\fR: Convert line\-delimited JSON records to a tree.
.IP "\[ci]" 4
\fBhelp\fR: Show help for commands.
.EL
.SH "OPTIONS"
.BL
.IP "\[ci]" 4
\fB\-\-report=[file]\fR: Write statistics report to file.
.IP "\[ci]" 4
\fB\-\-[no]\-color\fR: Enable or disable terminal colors.
.IP "\[ci]" 4
\fB\-c, \-\-conf=[file...]\fR: Load configuration files.
.IP "\[ci]" 4
\fB\-\-log\-level=[level]\fR: Set the log level.
.IP "\[ci]" 4
\fB\-j, \-\-json\fR: Output as JSON where possible.
.IP "\[ci]" 4
\fB\-\-depth=[int]\fR: Maximum depth to recurse.
.IP "\[ci]" 4
\fB\-\-bail\fR: Exit on first non\-2xx response code.
.IP "\[ci]" 4
\fB\-o, \-\-output=[file]\fR: Print to file not stdout.
.IP "\[ci]" 4
\fB\-\-pid=[file]\fR: Write process id to file.
.IP "\[ci]" 4
\fB\-p, \-\-pattern=[regex...]\fR: Path filter regexp patterns.
.IP "\[ci]" 4
\fB\-f, \-\-pattern\-file=[file...]\fR: Files containing path filter regexp patterns.
.IP "\[ci]" 4
\fB\-h, \-\-help\fR: Display this help and exit.
.IP "\[ci]" 4
\fB\-\-version\fR: Print version and exit.
.EL
.SH "PATTERN"
.PP
It is often useful to exclude certain pages from being downloaded, this is achieved using regular expression patterns on the command line or loaded from file(s). Be sure to quote pattern arguments on the command line to prevent shell meta characters from being interpreted.
.PP
Patterns are normal regular expressions with the caveat that a pattern prefixed with an exclamation mark (!) becomes an exclude pattern; include patterns have precedence. The match is performed on the full path name including leading slash and any query string. A pattern compile error will cause the program to exit with a non\-zero code.
.PP
When loading patterns from files empty lines in the file are ignored as are comment lines beginning with a hash (#). The order in which command line patterns and patterns loaded from file(s) are compiled is indeterminate when combined.
.PP
For example to exclude all pages from a section of a website but include a specific page you could use \fB\-p '!/section/.*' \-p '/section/page'\fR. The top\-level /section path would be included as would /section/page but all other paths within /section would be ignored.
.SH "REDIRECTS"
.PP
Redirects are automatically followed provided the redirect is to the same host.
.SH "REPORT"
.PP
When the \fB\-\-report\fR option is given statistics are written to the specified file as a JSON document when the crawl is complete, it has the following fields:
.BL
.IP "\[ci]" 4
\fBlength\fR: Number of items in the queue.
.IP "\[ci]" 4
\fBcomplete\fR: Number of items completed.
.IP "\[ci]" 4
\fBerrors\fR: Number of requests that responded with 4xx or 5xx status codes.
.IP "\[ci]" 4
\fBstats\fR: An object containing statistics.
.EL
.PP
The stats object has child objects that contain \fBmin\fR, \fBmax\fR and \fBavg\fR statistics for each of the following fields:
.BL
.IP "\[ci]" 4
\fBheaders\fR: Time in milliseconds until response headers were received.
.IP "\[ci]" 4
\fBbody\fR: Time in milliseconds to download the response body.
.IP "\[ci]" 4
\fBrequest\fR: Time in milliseconds to download the entire response; headers and body.
.IP "\[ci]" 4
\fBsize\fR: Size in bytes for the response body.
.EL
.SH "OUTPUT"
.PP
When the \fB\-\-ouput\fR option is given printing is redirected to the specified file and is not written to stdout. If the file does not exist it is created otherwise it is truncated; if the file stream cannot be created an error is reported and the program will exit with a non\-zero exit code.
.SH "SIGNALS"
.PP
You may pause the crawl by sending the signal \fBTSTP\fR and resume a paused crawl by sending the signal \fBCONT\fR.
.PP
Attempting to send the \fBTSTP\fR signal on a paused crawl will have no effect as will attempting to send \fBCONT\fR when the crawl has not previously been paused with \fBTSTP\fR.
.PP
Note that depending upon the concurrency level you may see messages printed after a crawl is paused.
.SH "EXIT"
.PP
The program will exit with a non\-zero exit code when an error is encountered. When the crawl completes any 4xx and 5xx HTTP response codes will cause the program to exit with code 255. This guarantees that a success exit code of zero will only occur when the crawl completes and no HTTP error responses occurred.
.SH "BUGS"
.PP
Report bugs to https://github.com/tmpfs/linkdown/issues.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
signal(7)
