.TH "LINKDOWN-META" "1" "February 2016" "linkdown-meta 1.0.14" "User Commands"
.SH "NAME"
linkdown-meta -- Extract meta data from stdin.
.SH "USAGE"

.SP
linkdown meta <args>
.br
linkdown m <args>
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.PP
The meta command extracts HTML page meta data from a buffer written to stdin. It extracts the value from the <title> element and any <meta> tags in the input buffer.
.PP
Typically this is used in combination with the exec command.
.PP
It prints to stdout a JSON document containing the meta data. When a JSON document is passed as an argument the meta data is injected into the input document.
.SH "EXAMPLE"
.PP
Without the \-\-json option to the exec command a simple document is printed.

  linkdown exec http://localhost:8080/meta \-\-cmd 'ldn meta'
.PP
Outputs:

.SP
  {
.br
    "meta": {
.br
      "title": "Meta Page",
.br
      "description": "Meta Test",
.br
      "keywords": "meta, link, http, linkdown"
.br
    }
.br
  }
.PP
When the \-\-json option is given to exec a more complete document is printed.

  linkdown exec http://localhost:8080/meta \-\-cmd 'ldn meta' \-\-json
.PP
Outputs:

.SP
  {
.br
    "url": "http://localhost:8080/meta",
.br
    "protocol": "http",
.br
    "host": "localhost",
.br
    "port": 8080,
.br
    "path": "/meta",
.br
    "depth": 1,
.br
    "fetched": true,
.br
    "status": "downloaded",
.br
    "stateData": {
.br
      "requestLatency": 21,
.br
      "requestTime": 28,
.br
      "contentLength": 278,
.br
      "contentType": "text/html; charset=utf\-8",
.br
      "code": 200,
.br
      "headers": {
.br
        "content\-type": "text/html; charset=utf\-8",
.br
        "content\-length": "278",
.br
        "etag": "W/\"116\-XLd4QBoQli2+6XLPb3Hinw\"",
.br
        "date": "Wed, 17 Feb 2016 15:02:57 GMT",
.br
        "connection": "close"
.br
      },
.br
      "downloadTime": 7,
.br
      "actualDataSize": 278,
.br
      "sentIncorrectSize": false
.br
    },
.br
    "meta": {
.br
      "title": "Meta Page",
.br
      "description": "Meta Test",
.br
      "keywords": "meta, link, http, linkdown"
.br
    }
.br
  }
.SH "BUGS"
.PP
Report bugs to https://github.com/tmpfs/linkdown/issues.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
linkdown\-exec(1)
