.TH "LINKDOWN-VALIDATE" "1" "February 2016" "linkdown-validate 1.1.1" "User Commands"
.SH "NAME"
linkdown-validate
.SH "USAGE"

.SP
linkdown validate [\-\-errors\-only] [\-\-abort] [\-\-format=<fmt>]
.br
         [\-\-jar=<file>] <args>
.br
linkdown v [\-\-errors\-only] [\-\-abort] [\-\-format=<fmt>]
.br
         [\-\-jar=<file>] <args>
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.PP
Validate (X)HTML pages (nu validator).
.SH "OPTIONS"
.BL
.IP "\[ci]" 4
\fB\-\-format=[fmt]\fR: Validator output format.
.IP "\[ci]" 4
\fB\-\-jar=[file]\fR: Path to the validator jar file.
.IP "\[ci]" 4
\fB\-\-errors\-only\fR: Warnings and info messages are not reported.
.IP "\[ci]" 4
\fB\-\-abort\fR: Abort validation on the first error.
.EL
.PP
This command will fetch all pages ending with the \fB.htm\fR, \fB.html\fR, \fB.xhtml\fR and \fB.xht\fR extensions; URLs with no file extension are assumed to be directories serving (X)HTML pages. Each downloaded file is written to a temporary file and passed to the validator.
.PP
To use this command you must have java(1) installed (version 8 is recommended) and specify the path to the nu validator jar by setting \-\-jar or the environment variable NU_VALIDATOR_JAR.
.PP
If the server responds with a MIME type other than \fBtext/html\fR or \fBapplication/xhtml+xml\fR validation is skipped and a warning is printed.
.PP
Without the \-\-format option the format is set to \fBjson\fR; the response document is parsed and printed to stderr.
.PP
When the \-\-format option is given the raw validator output is printed to stdout, the first line is the remote URL, followed by the validator output followed by a newline.
.PP
Because all log messages are sent to stderr this means you can get an easy to parse log file with all validation results using \fBlinkdown v \-\-format json http://example.com > validation.log\fR.
.PP
If the \-\-json option is given all validation results are output to stdout as line\-delimited JSON documents with the fields \fBurl\fR and \fBresult\fR.
.PP
To pass additional arguments to the java executable use \-\-, for example: \fBlinkdown v http://example.com \-\- \-Xss512k\fR to adjust the java thread stack size.
.SH "BUGS"
.PP
Report bugs to https://github.com/tmpfs/linkdown/issues.
